# Data-Driven Marketing Attribution

## The problem with attribution
A marketing attribution model is responsible for dividing the credit for sales conversions between channels or campaigns. CMOs use the results to measure ROI and to make more informed decisions on where to invest marketing resources in the future. The most popular models include:

* **Linear**: credits an equal share of the payoff between all touchpoints
* **Time-decay**: credits a decreasing percentage of payoff the further away in time a touchpoint is from the date of conversion
* **Positional**: credits 40% to the first and last touches, and the remaining 20% is evenly distributed to the touches in between

Choosing the best model is down to individual business needs. Each of these models has its pros and cons, but the biggest drawback they have in common is that they are rules based, and the user has to decide up front how they want the credit to be divided. These models are inflexible and unable to distinguish between the true low and high impact touchpoints, resulting in an inaccurate division on credit.

Data-driven attribution is a custom solution that is able to capture the intricacies of buyer journeys by modelling how channels, and more importantly how different combinations of channels, interact with buyers to influence a desired sales outcome. A data-driven model provides the most accurate view of which channels are performing the best, driving better marketing efficiency and accountability.

## Game theory and the Shapley value
The Shapley value is a concept taken from cooperative game theory. In a game of multiple players that can work together (form coalitions) to increase the likelihood of a desired outcome (payoff), the Shapley value provides a way to fairly divide the payoff between the players.

Essentially, the Shapley value is a measure of a player's average marginal contribution to each coalition. Taking into consideration that players can join coalitions at different points in time (order), and have varying degrees of influence (worth). Its based on the assumption that each ordering has the same probability of occurring, thus players are awarded by their contribution to all permutations.

In the context of marketing analytics, campaign channels are the players of the game, and the various ways in which the channels interact with accounts throughout the buyer journey form the coalitions. Cooperative game theory and the Shapley value provide a stable way to measure channel influence and fairly divide the credit for sales conversions between the channels, based on their individual contribution to the total payoff.

Marketing benefits:
* Deeper insight into channel performance
* Fair division of credit, based on measured contribution
* Ability to optimise channel spend and influence sales results
* Shapley value is a widely used, and Nobel prize winning, solution

## The characteristic function

A game is defined by a set of players ***N*** and a characteristic function ***v***. Every subset of players is called a coalition ***S***, and the characteristic function ***v(S)*** assigns a value to each coalition to signify it's **worth**. A coalition's worth represents the payoff that it can generate when it's players work together.

Options for defining the characteristic function for marketing include:
* Total revenue generated by each coalition
* Total number of sales conversions generated by each coalition
* Conversion ratio of each coalition (conversions / opportunities)
* Conditional probability of conversion - i.e. likelihood of converting given a set of channels (Naive Bayes)

This [notebook](game_theory_attribution.ipynb) provides an example of how to calculate the Shapley values for three marketing channels with a characteristic function based on conversion ratio.
